Feature Selection 
=================

This dataset is about Human Activity Recognition.
The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals Body Linear Acceleration and Body Angular Velocity (variables numbered 1, 2 and 3 below). These time domain signals were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were time differentiated to obtain corresponding Jerk signals. (variables numbered 3 and 5 below)
Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm. (variables numbered from 6 to 10 below)

1. Body Linear Acceleration in Time domain
2. Gravity Linear Acceleration in Time domain
3. Time derivative of Body Linear Acceleration (Linear Jerk) in Time domain
4. Body Angular Velocity in Time domain
5. Time derivative of Body Angular Velocity (Angular Jerk) in Time domain
6. Magnitude of Body Linear Acceleration in Time domain
7. Magnitude of Gravity Linear Acceleration in Time domain
8. Magnitude of Linear Jerk in Time domain
9.  Magnitude of Body Angular Velocity in Time domain
10. Magnitude of Angular Jerk in Time domain

The signals numbered 1 to 5 are measured in 3 axis - X, Y and Z seperately. And consequently there are 3 readings corresponding to each of the 3 dimensions.

The variables numbered 6 to 10 above are magnitudes measured as euclidean distance of the corresponding readings of variables numbered 1 to 5 above.

  

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing the below variables - 

11. Body Linear Acceleration in Frequency domain
12. Time derivative of Body Linear Acceleration (Linear Jerk) in Frequency domain
13. Body Angular Velocity in Frequency domain
14. Magnitude of Body Linear Acceleration in Frequency domain
15. Magnitude of Linear Jerk in Frequency domain
16. Magnitude of Body Angular Velocity in Frequency domain
17. Magnitude of Angular Jerk in Frequency domain


For each of these variables the mean and standard deviation values are estimated and the variable names indicate the same.

Thus effectively we have 8 variables (1 through 5 and 11 through 13) which have separate signals on each of X, Y and Z axis i.e. in all 8 * 3 = 24 variables

For magnitude there is one variable for each of the 6 through 10 and 14 through 17, i.e. 9 variables.

For each of these 33 variables (i.e. 24 + 9), we have readings for mean and standard deviation. Thus we have 66 variables in all in the data set.

Further the experiment was carried out by 30 subjects and each of the subjects had 6 activities to perform.
Thus data set has 180 (30 * 6) entries and 66 variables for each of these entries.

